assalamualaikum hi everyone today we are
going to learn how to install and run
laravel on azure we are going to enable
support for cues and remote database
so our first step is to create a web app
then we are going to create a separate
database a separate service for that
base
then we are going to update our web app
so that at each restart at each server
restart it updates a few configuration
files for the PHP for the nginx ETC then
we are going to make a custom GitHub
action workflow and we are going to see
how to add secret keys to the actions
finally we are going to deploy our
project
what you are seeing here is an already
live project that is running on AWS
however I'm going to replicate the same
project on Azure and as you can see this
has a database and it has a newsletter
subscription which runs a job in the
background a queue so let's go to the
portal of azure.com and we are going to
create a new resource I will create a
web app
for the resource Europe I will just call
it the pointed RG
okay and for the instance details on the
name I will just say it if pointed
and
on the publish I will choose the code
because
this is not a static website
and and my solution is not containerized
and I believe the code is the best
option that you can go with for PHP I
will choose PHP 8.1 the PHP version
depends on your code the minimum version
of PSP is 8.0 there is no support for
7.4 and for the region I will
check mine I am in UAE as for the
pricing plans I'm going to keep it as it
is I'm going to delete it after I'm
finished with this tutorial
as for the zoom redundancy I'm going to
keep it disabled but if you are running
an Enterprise level solution uh please
enable it it's it's better to have your
application redundant
next the deployment
a month ago this was disabled by default
you couldn't enable it basically this is
asking you if you enable it which I'm
not going to do but if you enable it and
you select your Revo
and I believe
this is the one
and you connect it with your branch you
can see here there is a configuration
file
this will be put to your solution this
will be pushed to your repo on the main
branch
the one you selected here and once you
create the instance of the web app it
will add it will run the GitHub action
behind the scenes however I suggest that
you don't do this if you want you can
you can keep it you can copy the content
just keep it somewhere on the clipboard
or on a notepad but I don't advise you
to do that because this will take about
20 minutes to complete
so I suggest that you disable this okay
so I'm going to leave this as default
and for the tags I like to add the text
because they are they keep things
organized
here on the review you can see the
estimate and
a few things about your application I
will create
so it took maximum two minutes now let's
go to the resource if you click on the
default domain you can see the default
page that comes with Azure web app now
the next step is to create mySQL
database so I will go to Resource MySQL
this is the one that I'm going to choose
Azure database for MySQL
let's hit create I'll choose flexible
server
here I am going to choose the same
Resource Group that I created for my web
app
and for the server name
I will say div pointed
DB
the mascal version it
I will leave this as for development or
hobby but for you to project be careful
what you choose I will not enable the
high availability MySQL authentication
only so this is basically the username
and password that you will get so I put
my on username and password
so for the networking I will set it as
public but public doesn't mean it's
available for everybody no this is
available for your research group and
you can have your own firewall rules and
you can allow uh your own IP or all the
IPS range of all the IPS and then you
can once you've finished the the
deployment you can come here and remove
this rule
so I will choose this first
I want you to notice here that this Con
supports the encrypted connections and
we are going to talk about this later
for security I will keep it as it is
Four Tags I will do the same environment
it's production
project
log
review I will create now
I will go back to my app service that
div pointed
this is basically the web app
and
I will go to explain a few things first
before we dive in into the deployment so
if you go to SSH
and the development tools assh go you
need to make notice of one important
thing here is that anything outside home
is not persisted meaning anything that
is sitting outside the home directory
is going to be deleted at every server
restart
and this is important to know because
our nginx configuration lives outside
the home directory our PHP configuration
lives outside the home directory so this
is very important to know so
I will go back here again
to
the wood app and I want you to go to the
configuration
as we all know in laravel there is a DOT
end file
but when you deploy to Azure web app you
don't need this file at all you don't
need to copy this file to begin with
this file doesn't need to exist at all
what you need to do is to come to the
configuration file and you can add your
environment files here you can just add
the application setting and you add for
example
the app
name and you call it whatever you want
okay
now if you go to the general settings
there is a startup command this is
basically a file or you can put here
some commands
but I advise you to have your own file
that is
inside the home directory
and this file will run at each system
reboot
and the best practice is to have it like
this home slash home slash
start up dot sh
basically at each system restart the
server will look for this file and
executes it so I will save
my configuration here
and at each time that you save this
you will notice this is going to restart
this is again one of the things that you
should be aware of that each each time
you change an application setting or in
the general settings
or you manually reboot it or you make
code changes and you push this is later
but this means that there is a system
restart now you can see in the home
directory
I have
a site and inside the site you will see
that
there is a WWE root
and this is basically the
you can see the hosting start that HTML
this is what's there on the server now
as I said we need to put at our home
directory a file that's called startup
so to do that you just say vim and
startup I am in the home directory by
the way
and here you add your files sorry your
commands
and they have prepared a gist file that
has everything that you need
to make this because it's not just one
file it's multiple files but the most
important one is the startup so I will
copy
all this
I will come to my startup file paste and
let me explain this on the file itself
on the gist it's easier so the first
thing nginx configuration copied then
PHP copied
then if you have some
packages that you need to install here
for example I am installing packages to
enable web B file conversion then I am
installing a supervisor to enable
the worker then I am doing my own
laravelworker.conf
the configuration for larva worker and
as you can see this sits also outside
the home directory then we perform
nginx restart supervisor start and again
if you don't have a queues you can just
remove the supervisor things here
and
later at
26 until 43
these are basically a PHP arts and
commands I am going to do one change
here I will put seed because this is
like a staging thing and finally
if you notice how to run the worker this
is how you do it you just use the no Hub
and end it with an and
so this basically runs in the background
because you need the worker to run in
the background so back to our file uh as
I said I will just
make one small change here instead of
PHP my grid I would say that's the seed
as well then I'm going to
write the file so we have our startup
command file now we need the nginx
configuration
our code is just default
and I will go to
uh
this one
I will copy and paste
again this is if you go to a lot of a
deployment you will see a similar one
here I just added a few things from the
default that came with web app and I
will just write the file then I will
create a new file for PS3 with an ionic
so I have created all the files
it's for four files and you have to
remember that the file naming is
important here because I am copying
default I'm copying php.ini and I am
copying laravel Dash worker Dot conf
now remember when we created the MySQL
service it was mentioning that it's
encrypted
now we have to reflect this on our
config file of database
I will duplicate this line I will
comment the first one just for reference
and instead of
C8 will be key
and I will just make the environment
also the same key
I will save this however I still need
the key for the key you need to download
it from Microsoft so I will set
for Azure Baltimore cyber trust root dot
Circle Bim
I'm sure you can find it you just go to
this documentation
and here is the files you just
download now this
file I will copy it into my solution so
I pasted it here into my
project folder
as you can see I have it here also now
it's time to make our environment file
and basically it's in the configuration
under the application settings so I'll
add each K and value into this
application settings while I am editing
the environment file all the application
settings I needed the server name of the
database so this is the one I forgot to
copy it you can always come back to the
service you created and copy the host so
this is the host Port it's the same and
database and database I will create it
later
this is the username and this is the
password okay
I keep the app key to do that later also
so this is my settings I will copy it
come back to the app service itself
on the configuration file I am editing
using the advanced editor I would paste
all my things here okay so I have all my
keys ready I will hit save
continue Now to create the database
I will connect to Azure data Studio but
you can use whatever you want but this
is the one that I am using I will create
a new connection it's a MySQL connection
it's an extension that I installed also
to Azure data Studio server name
authentication it's password so this is
the user
this is the password
number connect
so it's empty basically there's no
database so I will create a new one it's
the same one that I am using here
and UTF I like to use the general
c i
create
so I have a Twist ready
now let's move to the GitHub actions and
the workflow and how to create it so
first we need to connect our GitHub
account with the web apps I will go to
the deployment Center I will end the
settings I will connect I will choose my
source to be GitHub this is my source
and if you don't have the GitHub account
already connected you can connect it
from here there will be a sign in button
and once you do that
um
I suggest that you wait maybe 15 to 30
minutes before you continue the reason
I'm saying this is that because
previously I faced a challenge as you
can see this is my previous recording
and it was showing me some errors
so the solution was just to wait for 15
minutes to 30 minutes
after you just sign in and it will work
fine again this is only the first time
that you connect your account with with
azure.com
now I will choose my project
I'll select my branch
and here
you will see a configuration file so it
copy its content
if you notice that the file path will be
dot GitHub workflow slash maindiff
pointed to tml so what I will do is
a similar thing but instead of relying
on Microsoft to do this because I don't
want this this will take 30 minutes 20
minutes at best
to deploy and we don't want that so I
will go back to my solution here I will
create a new folder I will call it dot
GitHub
then I will create another folder called
workflows
and inside I will create my own yaml
file and this is going to be
main deploy Dot yeah
and I will paste
the content
so
this is going to be build and deploy PHP
app I'll say well that's a lot of
to Azure web app
and
on push
to main then
the jobs that will run it will use
GitHub actions version 2 and this I will
change it to change to version three
then it's going to use PHP 8.1 then it
will check if composer
is installed and then it will do the
composer thing the composer install and
by the way this is on GitHub actions
it's not on the server yet so this is
just building the file and then it will
upload it to GitHub action as an
artifact this also I will change it
the actions upload artifact I will
change it to version 3.
and the download artifact so I'm here in
the on the deployment I will change it
to version 3 and for Azure it's version
2 yes and we need to add two more steps
so
on the build step or on the build job
right after the com the composer is
installed and before the upload artifact
because this basically when you say
deploy when you say upload artifact it
will upload thousands of files uh
separately not as just one file so what
we are going to do is to
um
so here I will say zip the application
files and as you can see
I will add the zip Dash r PHP
app.zip and but I will call it release
just to make things clearer making a
small change here by adding this star
we add another step
for uh unzip
artifact
now here you'll notice that I have
secrets and this is for
um
publish a profile
we will come to this later I remember
that I am using one
package called laravel Nova and it
requires an authentication so I need to
add its configuration just before the
composer installed so here this is the
step I am going to install the a lot of
Anova dependency
so here I will install larval dependency
and I'm using the
a lot of Lenova secret and to other
secrets
you can go to your solution you go you
go to your GitHub repo and
inside your repo you can add and the
settings go down to the secrets and
variables actions then here you add a
new repository secret I created two now
I'll create another one
if you remember that's for the
publishing profile from Azure web app
so I will create a representative Secret
and this one I will call it
similar to this one this is very long so
I'll just
remove this
copy paste
and the secret now for the secret I will
bring it from the publishing profile in
the app you can see download publish
profile I will download this is the
content I will copy it and paste it into
the secret
now my deployment tml file is ready the
working flow is ready so I will save and
push it
now it's pushed you will see it
on the repo now I'm going back to the
deployment Center I will refresh
everything I will not save anything here
and here it's a little bit different
because it's either telling me that I'm
going to create a new workflow or use
the existing one and this is what I'm
going to do I'm going to use a workflow
that I have so I will save
if I go to the GitHub actions
you'll see it failed and the reason for
that
is that probably I bought the wrong
credentials for love Renova so I will
fix that
now there's something wrong with upload
I believe I made a mistake here it
shouldn't take
all of the files here it's uploaded the
release successfully but it's uploading
each file there is over 13 000 to be
uploaded so this is so there is
something wrong here let's figure it out
yeah here I missed this so here I need
just to say release.zip
so I will cancel this workflow
we will push another one
go back to actions
so now you can see there is there is
only one file to be uploaded and the
build is successful now it's the deploy
so it is completed now under five
minutes and if I visit this link it will
be
um of course it will not work still
so I will just go back
to my browser if I do this it will be
it's not going to be working now
one thing that is still remaining here I
will refresh this console page and
I will CD into our application
installation directory
so our files are here so list them you
can see files are here
now one thing that is still we haven't
done is the key of the app so to do that
we're on BHP Artisan key generate
dash dash show
and here I'm going to get my key
copy it
back to our
configuration settings on the web app
the app key needs instead of being to do
I will replace it with the key itself
that we just got and Save
another thing is the app URL I believe I
have it
paste this one
I will save
so if it's not working let's try the
startup command itself one
as you can see here the connection is
using insecure transport uh
this is basically because I forgot to
add the remember that Baltimore Bim file
I forgot it I forgot to add it to the
environment file so let's do that
so I'll include the new app
so we'll add a new application setting
it's
in database config it's this one
paste and here you need to add the path
so it's slash home slash size WWE
root
slash
and
I'll copy name from here
it's going to be the same name
paste and
save
so again this is going to restart the
server
so it's still not working let's check
again the startup
I believe we have something wrong with
my startup file
sorry
yeah this one
sorry about that
and it should be default because I
remember I named it default not engine X
default so I was telling you to be
careful
with the names I filling that up
okay so our startup server manually
from here just to start
so we'll try again the startup command
let's see also did I miss anything else
okay it's another mistake that I did
here if you notice it's in the migrate
I said see it but the first time it was
already seated so the the second time
it's adding the same username and
email Etc so it's breaking there it's
insert
fresh
so we restart again
let's try again the startup
from the terminal
so behind the scene I allowed
the release info change
um that's something you don't have to
worry about
so I will start it up again let's see
yeah now it's working
now this is finished let's see I believe
we have of course some errors but it's a
mixed content
now these errors to solve them because
because it's coming from HTTP we have to
solve this by changing our code a little
bit so in the trust boxes
this should be star all
and in the app service provider
in the boot method
would force it to uh
you will force it to be on production
to use the URL uh first scheme https
so it finished in two minutes
now let's check our
website
let's give it some time until it's
finishing
now let's refresh
now as you can see it's working however
the images are not coming and that's
because I missed one step
in the configuration because I used to
use the AWS S3 storage here you can use
the blob storage if you want but
currently I'm referring it as locally so
only one thing that we can do from here
if I go to the console again
and to the root then we can do the
something like this PHP artist
storage link
so as you can see all the images are
coming
and this tip we can add it to the
startup command
s home slash startup
and somewhere here we add
and because I already have my database
now already I don't need to
have the migrate fresh seed I just need
just migrate in case if there's any new
migrations
so once this is done
I think yeah that's it
um
I have my application ready so I have my
application ready it's working
as expected
if you have worked with Azure before and
if you have any comments or challenges
please share in the comments
have a good day see you in the next one